We are now on module number 16
where we're gonna be going over
what I call the hiring mindset,
which is pretty much the mental shift
that separates scalers from strugglers.
Now this is kind of like, uh, module 15, part two
or part B, um, but I separate, I'm separating this
because even though it's going over hiring, um,
the vibes gonna be different.
This is more a mental thing, not about
where you should hire people, how you should hire them.
It's just more so, you know, I feel like one thing I noticed
and one thing I wanted to add
that I did not have in the previous modules, meaning
the modules that, uh, a lot of you guys haven't seen.
'cause of course I've been running this community
for almost two years.
This is set number three of modules.
And what I didn't have before was a module like this.
And I feel like a lot of people I've spoken to, I wanted
to add this over the course of the,
the almost two years I've been running this
that I realize a lot of people struggle with this
and this, uh, you know, a hiring mindset
and actually being a boss
and not, you know, I guess a lot
of people just are not used to that.
Um, and it sounds easy,
but then a lot of people, you know, start feeling bad
for the editors or thumb no artists or doing this or that,
or overpaying or allowing for mistakes to happen
or being too lenient.
And, you know, if you wanna own a business, a lot
of the times you gotta be a boss with,
with a lot of AI channels.
Shoot you, you can get to the point
where you don't even have anybody working for you.
But you know, it's still good to know this in case you do
because, uh, a lot
of channels you still need to hire some people for.
So the hard truth about hires reality check.
Your hires do not care about you. They want money, right?
You know, these people don't know you,
especially when you first meet them, right?
Don't listen to their excuses.
Don't let them guilt trip you.
Don't let them plan your emotions.
These people will take too many clients at cheap prices.
They're gonna put their prices cheap, uh, you know, low rate
for editing, low rate for thumbnails so that
as many people hire them as possible,
then they can't keep up with that demand, right?
Because let's say they can make a hundred dollars a day, uh,
working with one client,
but they'd probably rather take four clients
for $50 a day, right?
And now they're, even though they're pricing themselves too
cheaply for the quality, now they're making more money,
but then they can't actually keep up with the demand.
So then when they can't keep up with the demand,
well they don't wanna get fired.
So they lie to you about why things are late or low quality.
So, you know, here's a quality decay pattern
and you know what to spot when, uh, you know, the quality
of your videos or thumbnails start going down.
Just watch for this, right?
Many editors start videos high quality,
then the quality dips throughout the video
or first few projects are great,
then they get comfortable and quality drops.
Like I said, a lot of this stuff we,
I've already mentioned in the last module,
but this one, I wanna come at it with a different tone,
really speak to you
and make sure you understand
that this is a real thing that happens.
And this is some, you know, you really need
to be the boss here, right?
That's the simplest way to put it. The solution is really
Just never let them feel comfortable,
you know, working for you.
If they're always on edge about being
fired, they will perform better.
Of course, this can go away over time.
If you are, you know, working with somebody long term,
but 99% of the time,
or actually a hundred percent of the time, if you're working
with somebody long term, chances are you're already making
decent money through YouTube.
So this is, uh, something
to worry about later down the line.
This is, this is more of a problem.
Like what with beginners?
Beginners hiring people and overpaying or over being lean
or overly being lenient, right?
For most of you guys, especially if you're not making
as much as you want to with YouTube
or you're not making anything yet,
or you're just getting started,
you haven't even started a channel yet, you know,
just this is the solution.
Never let them be comfortable.
If they're always on edge about being
fired, they will perform better.
This is just simply the truth.
And what I've seen coaching people for almost two years now.
So the next thing I want to go over is what I like
to call do it yourself itis, right?
And I just add itis to make it a disease.
The disease of wanting to do everything yourself
because you can trust yourself
because you know you're gonna do it the best.
You're gonna do it on time, all this, whatever, whatever.
And this happens even with people, even with people
that are succeeding, like Eddie Ella coaching the group,
he's doing really well at the time of me recording this.
But I remember having the conversation
with him a long time ago when he first joined
and when he was doing well with YouTube,
it seemed like he knew what he was doing,
but he didn't know how to scale more.
And it's because he had do it yourself itis.
And he's a lot better about this now.
And this disease is just simply holding you
back and do it yourself.
Itis pretty much means thinking.
You need to do everything yourself.
And this is the number one thing preventing people from
scaling, not from doing their first channel, right?
From scaling to multiple.
So this is more so of a problem if you wanna scale,
but you know, most of the time when people get monetized,
um, I'd say it's somewhere typically between two
to $4,000 a month or channels making that's the average.
Some people, you know, is a little bit lower,
some people's a little bit higher on their channels,
but you know, normally you hit two to $4,000 a month,
you know, running one
channel normally doesn't take that much time.
So naturally everybody in the community is gonna wanna scale
once they get the first monetized channel.
And what's funny right now is almost every single person,
I actually think just about every single person
that's gotten monetized in the last half year
or so, that's, uh, in the inner circle at least,
has actually not gotten one channel monetized.
But every single person that's gotten a channel monetized
has gotten at least two channels monetized,
which is a really interesting stat
that everybody's succeeding isn't just
having one channel monetized.
I don't even think there's one person at the moment
who has just one channel monetized.
Everybody has at least two, which is interesting.
Um, but this is, you know,
everybody wants to get their first channel.
I've already said before, once you get the first channel
monetized, the second one's easier, the third one's easier.
I'd say it gets like 30% easier each time.
And it gets to a point where, you know,
like once you're 10 channels deep, you're able
to get almost every channel you're running monetized, right?
You know, this applies to just about everybody.
If you're serious. The truth is, anybody can run YouTube.
So if you're serious and you take this
serious, uh, you will get to a point.
The only way you don't get to the point
that you wanna scale is if you give up, right?
And a lot of people, I'll be honest,
I like, I'll just be real.
I've been coaching people almost two years
and people just give up very easily.
And that's just naturally how it's gonna go.
Some people join the community
and then give up like within one or two days.
Like they, they watch a few of the modules
or like, this just isn't for me, which is interesting
'cause like I always preach like, I really,
truly believe this is one of the best ways
and easiest ways to make money online.
But anyways, let's get, get back to the main point.
If you don't hire people, if you don't automate,
if you don't delegate, you'll never scale beyond one
to two channels and you'll burn out.
You're gonna hit a ceiling of
maybe a few thousand dollars a month.
Well, sure, that's good,
but you know, that's probably, if you,
if you're joining this community
and you wanna start a business for yourself,
I'm sure just about everyone,
maybe some people are listening to this like, oh,
a few thousand, like three, $4,000 a month sounds great.
And I'm sure it does. But what I'm saying is, is that really
what your end goal is, right?
Like something being satisfied is not your end goal.
You should be able to have freedom, do what you want.
That's just about the end goal for everybody.
And just about everybody I talk to, like when I say
how much do you really wanna make?
Like, where would you say,
and I can ask you this as well, just ask yourself, like at
what point would you say you've made it with this?
A lot of people, normally the answer is like
$10,000 a month.
And you're not gonna get to, like,
sometimes you can get a channel $10,000 a month,
but with doit yourself, IUs, you know,
most channels you're getting $4,000 a month on average.
I would say you're not gonna get
to 10 KA month if you have doit yourself IUs.
So do you need to hire your first editor?
If your niche requires it,
the editing is intensive, then hire an editor.
When you wanna start, um,
your second channel while channel one is profitable.
So a lot of people are scared,
like their channel is making 4,000 a month
and right now it costs them, you know,
maybe $300 a month to run it.
So they're making 3.7 KA month.
And then they go through and they do the math.
You figure out that if you spend another 700 a month,
your channel will be fully automated.
So, you know, the editing will be taken care of.
Like everything will be done.
Like maybe an ai like a manager to, you know,
AI generate the scripts, an editor
put all together that'll cost you 700 a month.
And now you're scared 'cause you're going from 3.7 KA month,
three KA month, or even if it's another thousand a month.
Let's say you're going from 3.7 KA month profit
to now you're gonna 2.7 k,
but you just reduce your workload from 20 hours a week
to literally, normally it's like between one
to three hours just checking in, making sure the, you know,
the process is still running and that's worth it.
That's worth, it's like buying your time back.
You build up the channel, make sure it's doing well,
then you buy your time back, like, yes,
you're making less money,
but now you have time to make another channel
that's 2.7 KA month profit and
or 3.7 KA month profit, let's say.
And then if you then fully automate that one,
now you have two channels to manage,
which might take five hours a week max
to manage two channels.
Um, or not manage.
I'm saying like, look over if you have a manager
and everything, then it'll take max five hours a week.
And because you ended up doing that
and getting rid of your do it yourself,
now you're making two sets of 2.7,
Which that would be 5.4.
And remember, originally you're making 3.7 working 20 hours
a week, now you're working five hours a week making 5.4.
And the more you do this, the more that like the,
the bigger you realize how big of a deal this is
or the more you realize how big of a deal this is.
So the scaling mindset is higher, people
automate, start more channels.
Like this is how you build a business.
This isn't a job, you're not being told what to do.
You just really, this is really important
and this isn't that long of a section.
And like I said, this kind of builds off
of the last one, but it's important.
I wanna separate this. I want
to give you a different tone of my voice.
I really wanna speak to you. I'm looking at you.
I wanna speak to you because this is
something I'm telling you.
I've run, I've seen it happen so many times
and it sucks seeing somebody succeed
and we feel great for them for the first few months.
And then you're stuck at the same number for six months.
You know, obviously, you know, you got
what you want outta the program, you end up succeeding
and you end up making it.
But that then it, then it doesn't become, you know,
what your end goal was.
You don't get the freedom you wanted.
You kind of just get this as you know, you're still maybe,
uh, you know, just treating this
as a side income or something.
And it's because of simply go back to do it yourself.
I this. So hopefully you really understood this
and you're not just thinking of this as a little,
oh my gosh, Eddie YAPS module.
I really thought based on just everything I said
and based on running this program for a while,
that something like this was needed to be said
and needed to be included in here.
So thank you for listening.
I hope you, uh, wrote something down from what I said here.
See, you.